.TH dot-obdgpslogger 5
.SH NAME
dot-obdgpslogger \- configuration file for obdgpslogger

.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"
Configuration file for obdgpslogger

.B Comments
Any line whose first non-whitespace character is a # is a comment

.B obddevice=<string>
Full path to obd device entry [typically /dev/something]

.B gpsdevice=<string>
Full path to gps device entry [typically /dev/something]

.B log_columns=<string>
Command-separated list of db_column entries to log. These are
probably things you want to draw from "obdgpslogger \-p"

.B log_file=<string>
Write to this logfile. Can be relative or absolute path

.B samplerate=<integer>
Number of samples to take per second. 0 for "as fast as you can"

.B baudrate=<integer>
Set serial port baudrate to this. \-1 disables attempt to change, or 0
to let the software try to guess.

.B baudrate_upgrade=<integer>
Upgrade the baudrate to this after successful setup. \-1 disables attempt
to change, or 0 to let the software try to figure out the best choice.

.B optimisations=<integer>
Set to 1 to enable ELM optimisations

.SH FILES TO PARSE
.IX Header "FILES TO PARSE"
The system loads these files, in order. Each one overwrites any settings
from the file before it:
.P
1) /etc/obdgpslogger
.P
2) $HOME/.obdgpslogger
.P
3) /var/run/obdftdipty.device
.P
4) getenv("OBD_CONFIGFILE")


.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.IX Header "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"

.TP 5
OBD_CONFIGFILE
.br
Full path to the obd config file you wish to read

.TP 5
HOME
.br
If set, read .obdgpslogger from this dir

.TP 5
APPDATA
.br
If HOME isn't set, will attempt to read .obdgpslogger from here instead


.SH SEE ALSO
.IX Header "SEE ALSO"
.BR "obdgpslogger(1), obdgui(1)"

.SH AUTHORS
Gary "Chunky Ks" Briggs <chunky@icculus.org>

