.TH obdsim-dbus 5
.SH NAME
obdsim-dbus \- configuration file for DBus obdsim generator

.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"
Configuration file for obdsim's DBus Generator

No Defaults are provided, all values must be specified. You must specify
the full bus-interface-path-member dbus 4-tuple, and then as many mappings
as you like.

The plugin listens only for signals, and updates an internal list
with the last signal received. The first two numbers in a signal are
parsed: the first is a numeric "key", the second is a numeric "value"
.P
The keys are mapped to PIDs via the "map" command in this config file.

.B "bus=<session|system>"
.br
DBus bus - can be either session or system. For fbd [fusion brain daemon],
this should be system.

.B "interface=<interface name>"
.br
DBus interface. For fbd, this should be org.openice.fbd.fusionbrain

.B "path=<full dbus path>"
.br
DBus path. For fbd, this should be /org/openice/fbd

.B "member=<member name>"
.br
DBus member to listen to. For fbd, this should be AnalogValueChanged

.B "map <decimal input> => <hex PID>"
.br
Easiest is an example. If a dbus signal is sent as "11" "3.2", then:
.br
.B "map 11 => 0x0D"
.br
Will cause 3.2 to be reported as the throttle position next time it
is requested.


.SH EXAMPLE CONFIG
.IX Header "EXAMPLE CONFIG"

Below is a sample configuration file, for use with fbd, Fusion Brain Daemon

bus=system
.br
interface=org.openice.fbd.fusionbrain
.br
path=/org/openice/fbd
.br
member=AnalogValueChanged
.br
# Some sample mappings.
.br
# Map engine temperature
.br
map 1 -> 0x05
.br
# Map airflow mass
.br
map 2 -> 0x10
.br
# Map rpm
.br
map 3 -> 0x0C
.br
.br
# Map vss
.br
map 11 -> 0x0D
.br
# Map throttlepos
.br
map 12 -> 0x11

.SH SEE ALSO
.IX Header "SEE ALSO"
.BR "obdsim(1)"

.SH AUTHORS
Gary "Chunky Ks" Briggs <chunky@icculus.org>

