.TH obdgpslogger 1
.SH NAME
obdgpslogger \- Log OBD and GPS data to sqlite

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B obdgpslogger [ options ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"
This is a tool to log OBDII and GPS data to an sqlite database

.SH OPTIONS
.IX Header "OPTIONS"
.IP "-s|--serial <serialport>"
Open this serial port device to connect to the elm327 device.
.IP "-c|--count <count>"
Take this many samples at most. Leaving this option out defaults
to incessant sampling.
.IP "-u|--output-log <filename>"
Redirect stdout and stderr to this file
.IP "-l|--serial-log <filename>"
Log all serial comms into this file.
.IP "-a|--samplerate <samples-per-second>"
Sample at most this many times a second. The software will sleep
temporarily at the end of each loop if appropriate. Keep in mind
there is an upper limit to samplerate, typically capped by I/O on
your serial port. Set this to zero to sample as fast as possible.
BE WARNED. Values greater than ten here are forbidden for cars
predating April 2002. If you think your car postdates early 2002,
and you'd like to sample as fast as possible, the \-o option may
help
.IP "-o|--enable-optimisations"
Enable certain elm327 optimisations. This will [usually] make
sampling faster [not a noticeable amount if you're only sampling
once a second], but makes it much easier to accidentally disobey
the standard if you're sampling as fast as possible.
.IP "-p|--capabilities"
Dump the commands your OBD device claims to support to stdout, then exit.
.IP "-m|--daemonise"
Convert the program to a background daemon after successfully
initialising.
.IP "-B|--modifybaud [rate]"
Attempt to upgrade baudrate to rate. If rate isn't specified, we'll just
take a few guesses and go with what works.
.IP "-b|--baud <rate>"
Attempt to set serial port baudrate to this after launching. Passing
zero tells it to try and guess, or \-1 to not try changing at all.
.IP "-d|--db <database>"
Open this database to log data to. The software will create the
database if it does not exist, and create the tables it needs.
.IP "-i|--log-columns <column names>"
Comma-separated list of column names. These are the short names
listed when you use "\-p" to get your car's capabilities
.IP "-v|--version"
Print out version number and exit.
.IP "-h|--help"
Print out help and exit.
 
.SH NOT OPTIONS
.IX Header "NOT OPTIONS"
These options are not intended to be used by end users using the command
line, they are support options for the GUI component. Use or rely on
them at your own peril.
.IP "-t|--spam-stdout"
Write all readings to stdout. The format is unlikely to change in
practice, but if you choose to try to parse this yourself, I don't want
to hear about it when it does change.

.SH SEE ALSO
.IX Header "SEE ALSO"
.BR "obd2kml(1), obd2csv(1), obd2gpx(1), obdsim(1), obdgui(1), obdlogrepair(1), obdftdipty(1), dot-obdgpslogger(5)"

.SH AUTHORS
Gary "Chunky Ks" Briggs <chunky@icculus.org>

